import {Meta} from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';

import {Modal} from '@workday/canvas-kit-react/modal';
import {Specifications} from '@workday/canvas-kit-docs';

import {Basic} from './examples/Basic';
import {WithoutCloseIcon} from './examples/WithoutCloseIcon';
import {CustomFocus} from './examples/CustomFocus';
import {ReturnFocus} from './examples/ReturnFocus';
import {CustomTarget} from './examples/CustomTarget';

<Meta title="Components/Popups/Modal/React" component={Modal} />

# Canvas Kit Modal

A Modal component is a type of Dialog that renders a translucent overlay that prevents user
interaction with the rest of the page. A Modal will render the rest of the page inert until the
Modal is dismissed. A Modal should be used when the user needs to presented with important
information that must be interacted with before continuing interaction with the rest of the page.

## Installation

```sh
yarn add @workday/canvas-kit-react
```

## Usage

### Basic

The basic behavior of a modal is to hide all content from all users that is "behind" the modal
dialog.

<ExampleCodeBlock code={Basic} />

### Without Close Icon

If you wish to remove the close icon button, you can simply omit the `Modal.CloseButton`
subcomponent. If you have a modal dialog that requires the user to accept instead of dismiss though
an escape key or clicking outside the modal, you must create a new `PopupModel` without those
behaviors and hand that model to the Modal dialog component.

<ExampleCodeBlock code={WithoutCloseIcon} />

### Custom Focus

By default, the Modal makes sure the first focusable element receives focus when the Modal is
opened. Most of the time, this is the `Modal.CloseIcon` button. If that element isn't present, the
Modal will use the Modal Heading to make sure screen reader users have focus near the start of the
Modal's content. This allows screen reader users to discover the Modal's content more naturally
without having to navigate back up again. Sometimes, it is a better user experience to focus on a
different element. The following example shows how `initialFocusRef` can be used to change which
element receives focus when the modal opens.

<ExampleCodeBlock code={CustomFocus} />

### Return Focus

By default, the Modal will return focus to the `Modal.Target` element, but it is possible the Modal
was triggered by an element that won't exist when the modal is closed. An example might be a Modal
that was opened from an Menu item and the act of opening the Modal also closes the Menu, meaning the
Menu item can no longer receive focus. The also probably means the `Modal.Target` component might
not suite your needs. The `Modal.Target` adds both a `ref` and an `onClick`. If you provide a
`returnFocusRef`, you only need to worry about the `onClick`. If you're using a menu, you might need
to use a different callback. Calling `model.events.show()` will show the Modal.

<ExampleCodeBlock code={ReturnFocus} />

### Custom Target

It is common to have a custom target for your modal. Use the `as` prop to use your custom component.
The `Modal.Target` element will add `onClick` and `ref` to the provided component. Your provided
target component must forward the `onClick` to an element for the Modal to open. The `as` will cause
`Modal.Target` to inherit the interface of your custom target component. This means any props your
target requires, `Modal.Target` now also requires. The example below has a `MyTarget` component that
requires a `label` prop.

> **Note**: If your application needs to programmatically open a Modal without the user interacting
> with the target button first, you'll also need to use `React.forwardRef` in your target component.
> Without this, the Modal will open at the top-left of the window instead of around the target.

<ExampleCodeBlock code={CustomTarget} />

## Components

### Modal

This component is the container component and does not render any semantic elements. It provides a
React Context model for the `Modal` subcomponents. If you manually pass a `model` to all
subcomponents, this container component isn't needed. If you do not pass a `model`, the `Modal`
container component will build a default one using `useModalModel`. `Modal` is a composition of a
`Popup` component and has a similar structure to `Popup`.

<ArgsTable of={Modal} />

### Modal.Target

The `Modal.Target` is any element that is meant to show the Modal. The default component rendered by
this component is a `SecondaryButton` element. You can override this by passing the desired
component via `as`. Many examples above use `as={DeleteButton}`. If you want to render an
`IconButton` instead, use `as={IconButton}`. The `Modal.Target` is an alias for `Popup.Target` and
uses the `usePopupTarget` hook, which provides a `ref` and an `onClick`. The provided `ref` will be
used to return focus to this element when the Modal is closed. If the provided component does not
forward the `ref` to an element, the fallback is to capture an element in the `onClick`. This can be
overridden by providing a `returnFocusRef` to the model.

<ArgsTable of={Modal.Target} />

### Modal.Overlay

The `Modal.Overlay` is the component that hooks a Modal up to the `PopupStack` as well as the
semi-transparent overlay commonly used with modals. Internally, the `Modal.Overlay` component uses
two `div` elements to ensure proper rendering of the `Modal` content. The default element is a `div`
element and can be changed via the `as` prop.

<ArgsTable of={Modal.Overlay} />

### Modal.Card

The `Modal.Card` is wraps a `Popup.Card` which wraps a `Card`. It is the `role="dialog"` element and
is uses `useModalCard` behavior hook which sets `aria-modal="true"` and sets the `aria-labelledby`
that points to the `id` of the `Modal.Heading`. If you don't use a `Modal.Heading`, add an
`aria-label` instead. The default element is a `div` and can be changed via the `as` prop.

<ArgsTable of={Modal.Card} />

### Modal.Heading

The `Modal.Heading` semantically labels the Modal via adding an `id` that the `Modal.Card` points to
via `aria-labelledby`. If this component is not used, you must add an `aria-label` to the
`Modal.Card` to label the Modal for screen reader users. This component uses the `useModalHeading`
behavior hook which sets an `id` and also does some focus management logic for situations where
there is no `Modal.CloseIcon` component used. Please use `Modal.Heading` and don't use your own
unless you also use the `useModalHeading` hook in your component. Consult accessibility if you
cannot use this component. The default element is an `h2` and can be changed via the `as` prop.

<ArgsTable of={Modal.Heading} />

### Modal.CloseIcon

The `Modal.CloseIcon` is the 'X' icon in the top corner of a Modal. It always requires an
`aria-label` which must be translated. It uses the `usePopupCloseIcon` which adds an `onClick` that
will close the Modal. The default component rendered is an `IconButton` can be changed via the `as`.
All props that `IconButton` takes are also available by default.

<ArgsTable of={Modal.CloseIcon} />

### Modal.CloseButton

The `Modal.CloseButton` is a convenience component that attaches an `onClick` listener to close the
Modal. It uses the `usePopupCloseButton` behavior hook which adds an `onClick` that calls
`model.events.hide()`. If you don't use this component, you'll have to add your own `onClick` and
you'll have to hoist the model. The default component rendered is a `SecondaryButton` and can be
changed via the `as` prop. This component doesn't contain any styles and will take on the styles of
the component given to it. For example, `as={DeleteButton}` will render a delete button.
`as={IconButton}` will render an `IconButton`. If you give it a base element like `as="button"`, you
are responsible for styling the element. You can add your own `onClick` to perform side effects.
Your callback will be merged with the `onClick` that closes the Modal.

<ArgsTable of={Modal.CloseButton} />

## Specifications

<Specifications file="Modal.spec.ts" name="Modal" />
